= Mac::TTS

Gem for piping text from Ruby to the Mac OS X say command.


== Install

  gem install bratta-mactts --source http://gems.github.com


== Usage

There are two main ways to use this gem. On your system, say you have
the sane defaults for the say command (i.e. the say command is in /usr/bin/say
and you don't care about the name of the tempfile). Then you can call the
class method "say" to speak what you want with the voice you want:

  Mac::TTS.say('This is my text!')
  
The default is to use the voice 'Fred'. If you want to use a different voice,
then pass a symbolized version of the voice to the command:

  Mac::TTS.say('This is my text!', :alex)
  
A list of valid voices is in the valid_voices class method:

  puts Mac::TTS.valid_voices

With the power of Ruby, you can utilize here-docs to make some neat looking code
and speak a large amount of text:

  Mac::TTS.say(<<-EOT, :alex)
    This is a test. This is only a test.
    If this were an actual emergency, I'd be screaming my head off.
  EOT  
  
If you wish to instantiate the object to change the defaults, feel free to
do so:

  mactts = Mac::TTS.new(:command => '/path/to/say', :tempfile => 'somename', :voice => :deranged)
  mactts.say('This is my text!')
  
Of course, you can always call the accessors for @command, @tempfile, and @voice
before the say command in order to get what you want.

The "tempfile" option is just the name of the file created when this gem buffers
the text out to disk with the Tempfile command. The reason it is sent to a text file 
is so that we can utilize large amounts of text and not have to worry about special 
characters like we would if we just passed it directly to the command line.


== License

Copyright (c) 2009 Tim Gourley
 
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
